Document WabiSabi based protocol (#67)
zkSNACKs/WabiSabi: protocol.md

# Coordinated CoinJoin Protocol

This document describes a generic protocol based on WabiSabi for the
construction of CoinJoin transactions with the aid of a central coordinator.

Following ZeroLink terminology, a round is a single attempt at constructing a
valid bitcoin transaction (not to be confused with the number of rounds of
interactivity in the multiparty protocol).

Users who control unspent Bitcoin transaction outputs can participate in the
protocol to create a valid Bitcoin transaction that spends these UTXOs as
inputs creating new outputs, so that no direct link is observable between any
input and any output to the coordinator or the other participants.

This document does not address privacy preserving transaction structure, so

> naive instantions of the protocol may still reveal links inputs and outputs of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
naive instantiations of the protocol may still reveal links inputs and outputs of
```

a singler user (e.g. by amounts, script types, or address reuse).

## Roles

A single user assumes multiple roles in the protocol, each with its own network
level identity (separate tor circuit):

- Satoshi - used to obtain round information
- Alice - used for input registration (can be instantited multiple times per
  user)

> - Bob - used for an output registration (can be instantiated multiple times per

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bob - used for output registration (can be instantiated multiple times per
```

  user)

## Round Structure

Rounds are comprised of several phases which conclude when a condition is
satisfied or after a timeout.

> 1. Input Registration - Alices prove ownership of inputs to the coordinator,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Input Registration** - Alices prove ownership of inputs to the coordinator,
```

   which issues credentials with zero value for use in mandatory credential
   presentations. Inputs must be periodically confirmed to remain registered.
   Input registration concludes when the maximum number of inputs has been
   registered, or after a timeout if the minimum number of inputs has been
   registered.

> 2. Connection Confirmation - To signal that input registration has concluded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Connection Confirmation** - To signal that input registration has concluded
```

   the coordinator responds to confirmation requests by issuing the requested
   credentials. This phase concludes when all inputs have been confirmed or
   after a timeout.

> 3. Output Registration - Bobs present credentials in order to register outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Output Registration** - Bobs present credentials in order to register outputs.
```

   When there is no outstanding balance (all non-zero credentials have been
   presented) or after a timeout the round unconditionally advances to the
   signing phase.

> 4. Transaction Signing - Satoshis fetch the proposed transaction, and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Transaction Signing** - Satoshis fetch the proposed transaction, and the
```

   Alices provide input signatures after confirming their output registrations
   have been included.  

> 5. Transaction Broadcast - The coordinator broadcasts the transaction and waits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Transaction Broadcast** - The coordinator broadcasts the transaction and waits
```

round may still proceed if a sufficient number of participants have joined.
Failure during any phase will cause the round as a whole to fail, apart from
output registration which unconditionally proceeds to the signing phase in
order to assign blame. Signed inputs reveal that a user executed the protocol
honestly, allowing faulty/malicious users to be excluded from a re-attempted
round.

Round metadata such as coordinator parameters for the WabiSabi credentials,
information is provided in response to `GetCoinjoinStatuses` requests
([details TBD](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WabiSabi/issues/64#issuecomment-648872493)).

## Attacks

Due to the nature of CoinJoin transactions users don't need to trust other
users or the coordinator against theft, leaving denial of service and attacks
on privacy as the main concerns.

### Denial of Service

A user may disrupt the protocol by failing to provide a signature for an input
on the final transaction.

Such attacks can be mitigated by banning inputs that do not honestly
participate, which can increase the cost and liquidity requirement for a denial
of service attack.

> Failure to confirm during input registration can generally be tolerated as it
> does not harm other users, but once the connection confirmation phase times out
> the input set is finalized, and inputs for which a signature is not the
> subsequent transaction signing phase may be considered malicious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failure to confirm during input registration can generally be tolerated as it does not harm other users. However failure to confirm in connection confirmation phase cannot go without punishment, otherwise an attacker could make sure only small CoinJoins to take place. And once the connection confirmation phase times out the input set is finalized, and inputs for which a signature is not the subsequent transaction signing phase may be considered malicious.
```

### Attacks on Privacy

Attacks on privacy can be attempted by a passive observer, including a global
adversary performing traffic analysis, the coordinator, or a participant in the
protocol.

We assume that network level privacy tools and uniformity of the requests
account for traffic analysis based attacks, and that the structure of the
CoinJoin transaction provide sufficient privacy against passive observers.

> This leaves Sybil attacks by other users or the coordinator, and attacks by the
> coordinator such as targetted denial of service by the coordinator for the
> purpose of deanonymization (e.g. facilitating an intersection attack on
> specific input or output registrations) or timing analysis. Sybil attacks by
> users or the coordinator have a liquidity requirement, and sybil attacks by
> users not colluding with the coordinator may also incur a cost depending on
> fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This leaves Sybil attacks by other users or the coordinator, and attacks by the coordinator such as targeted denial of service by the coordinator for the purpose of deanonymization (e.g. facilitating an intersection attack on specific input or output registrations) or timing analysis. Sybil attacks by
users or the coordinator have a liquidity requirement cost requirements depending on Bitcoin network fees.
```
